Next up let's talk about looping over objects or iterating over objects.
We've seen how we can use a for loop with an array or a string.
We can use a for of loop with an array or a string.
Those don't really work with objects at least not easily.
Here's a simple object it contains movies as keys and then ratings or reviews are the values and it
made some of the keys explicit strings so I could add spaces kill space Bill and remember everything
ends up as a string eventually and that object as a key.
Okay so I have my movie reviews.
If I wanted to just loop over and print out each value or maybe a rival dash nine point five in Brugge
dash nine I couldn't really use a for loop.
What what would I generate what numbers.
There are no indices for this object.
We can't do movie reviews of one.
I mean we can.
There's just nothing there.
So a for loop isn't going to work.
What about a four of.
If I did four let x of movie reviews and we'll just cancel that log x type error.
Movie reviews is not editable.
So remember a for of loop works with any ignorable which includes things like arrays and strings but
an object is not a drop.
So what can we do instead.
Well we have a couple of options.
The first is to use a for of loop and instead of looping over the entire object which doesn't work we
can loop over just the keys or just the values.
We haven't seen this yet because there's not much use for it.
Aside from looping but there is a method called Object keys and you pass in an object to it.
OP's movie reviews and we get a list of the keys as you can see here and we also have object values.
Pay attention to the fact that it is capital O object just like we saw with object out a sign.
So it's not movie reviews dot keys or dot values.
Okay so this is something that we can loop over if we want just the values we can loop over that if
we want just the keys we can loop over that and if we want both we can use the keys to access the values
so let's do that first.
I'll leave this version and just commented out and add a note that it does not work but if we do for
it let's not do X forget to loop over the keys.
Let's go with movie or maybe just m movie of object keys.
Movie reviews and now if we cancel that log movie refresh the page we're printing out each key.
We took movie reviews which was not terrible but we just grabbed the keys.
Which is it arable to list so we can iterate over it and we're just printing out each item just as if
we had an array of these strings.
Same sort of idea except they're coming from an object and that works.
But if we want to access the values we would just add in a line here with movie reviews of movie and
we cannot do Dot.
Remember this is a variable if we need to access part of an object and the key is a variable.
We use the square brackets.
Let's see what we get now.
Arrival nine point five alien nine family eight.
Great that works.
We can also do the same thing with just the values.
But remember if you have a value for an object there's not an easy way to get the corresponding key.
So a lot of the times you want both.
But if we wanted to do something like find the average review score these are all pretty highly rated.
I guess we could instead iterate over the values and add them altogether.
So we have the same sort of method object out values pass in movie reviews and let's make this its own
variable.
We'll call this scores or ratings.
I think ratings is better and then we can iterate over that for let's rating maybe just r of ratings
and remember ratings is not the object is just the values and if we wanted to sum them all together
and then average them I would make a variable called Total equal zero and then add each R into total
total plus equals R and then at the very end I need to divide by the length of ratings.
So we'll have rating stout length and we can divide total by that we can either save that to total so
we could do total slash equals which UPS.
Wrong direction.
I don't like to use this as much.
I think it's just very uncommon compared to plus equals and minus equals at least in my experience it
is.
But this will work.
We're saying total is now equal to total divided by rating stout length and we'll control that lug total.
Although I don't like that term total because it's not a total anymore.
It's an average and there we go the average is eight point six eight seven five.
So I would probably rewrite this to let average equal total divided by rating stout length and cancel
that log average.
All right.
So that's one way we can iterate over an object where we're not actually iterating over the object at
once we're isolating the keys and using four of the keys or isolating the values.
We could also have done a for loop a regular for loop where we can use an index but I still prefer using
four of the point is there's not an easy way to use a for loop to just automatically without having
to call object out values or object keys to iterate over an object.
But this isn't bad but in the next video we'll see another type of loop called for in which does exactly
what we're doing here.